= Set up the Pandoc+TeX environment =

== For Mac OS X ==

''Firstly'', please install [http://johnmacfarlane.net/pandoc/ pandoc] package from [http://brew.sh <code>Homebrew</code>]. If you haven’t installed brew on your Mac, please give it a try.

<pre>$ brew install pandoc</pre>
Standalone pandoc package is available on https://github.com/jgm/pandoc/releases.

''Secondaly'', install [https://www.tug.org/mactex/ MacTeX] via [http://caskroom.io <code>Homebrew Cask</code>]. Yes, cask is highly recommended for Mac users too. Please be patient as it takes time to download the 2.3GB installation file.

<pre>$ brew cask install mactex</pre>
Don’t forget to add <code>texbin</code> into <code>$PATH</code>:

<pre>$ echo 'export PATH=$PATH:/usr/texbin' &gt;&gt; ~/.bash_profile</pre>
Standalone MacTeX package is available on https://www.tug.org/mactex/.

''After that'', install the necessary fonts by double click the font files. Font files “TeX Gyre Termes” can be retrieved from http://www.gust.org.pl/projects/e-foundry/tex-gyre/termes. Please make sure you have authorized files for the Adobe Chinese fonts: <code>AdobStongStd</code>, <code>AdobHeitiStd</code>, <code>AdobeFangsongStd</code>and <code>AdobKaitiStd</code>.

''Finally'', install <code>zhfonts</code> module for the ConTeXt engine.

<pre>$ cd ~/Library/
$ mkdir -p texmf/tex/context/third
$ cd !$
$ git clone https://github.com/liyanrui/zhfonts.git
$ luatools --generate
$ mtxrun --script fonts --reload
$ mtxrun --script fonts --list --pattern=\* --all</pre>
Now you should be able to build the HPC sample documents.

== For GNU/Linux ==

''Firstly'', please download TexLive 2014 installer from http://mirror.ctan.org/systems/texlive/tlnet/install-tl-unx.tar.gz.

''Secondly'', run the installer. TeXLive can be installed into your $HOME, or into a global directory like <code>/usr/local</code> which requires root privilege.

<pre>$ cd /your/download/directory
$ sudo ./install-tl  
  [... messages omitted ...]
  Enter command: i
  [... when done, see below for post-install ...]</pre>
When you see <code>Welcome to TeX Live!</code>, congratulations, you have successfully installed texlive2014. The following environment variables need to be added into <code>~/.bash_profile</code>:

<pre># ~/.bash_profile
export PATH=/usr/local/texlive/2014/bin/x86_64-linux:$PATH  </pre>
If you need user manual, add the followings too:

<pre># ~/.bash_profile
export MANPATH=/usr/local/texlive/2014/texmf-dist/doc/man:$MANPATH  
export INFOPATH=/usr/local/texlive/2014/texmf-dist/doc/info:$INFOPATH  </pre>
In order to build the documents with Chinese characters, you need to add the four Adobe Chinese fonts:

<pre>$ mkdir -p ~/texmf/fonts    
$ cp YOUR_FONTS.TTF_OTF ~/texmf/fonts</pre>
''After that'', please install Pandoc from package manager.

<pre>$ sudo apt-get install pandoc
$ mtxrun --script fonts --reload</pre>
Standalone pandoc package is available on https://github.com/jgm/pandoc/releases.

''Then'' install the <code>zhfonts</code> module for ConTeXt:

<pre>$ mkdir -p ~/texmf/tex/context/third    
$ cd ~/texmf/tex/context/third  
$ git clone https://github.com/liyanrui/zhfonts.git
$ luatools --generate</pre>
''Now'', we can generate wiki and pdf file using Texlive and pandoc.

== For Microsoft Windows ==

At the very beginning, Windows users are required to install [https://cygwin.com/ Cygwin] to make the Linux tools take effect. Pleas check the following tools during installation:

* Base:sed
* Devel: make
* Base: openssl
* Net: openssl
* Devel: git, git-completion.
* Editors: vim, vim-common

After installation, a shortcut of Cygwin will be added on your Desktop.

''Firstly'', install [http://johnmacfarlane.net/pandoc pandoc] from its binary release on https://github.com/jgm/pandoc/releases.

''Secondly'', install [https://www.tug.org/texlive/ TeXLive] 2014 by running <code>install-tl-windows.bat</code> in the ISO image. Commands of Tex Live will be automatically added to your PATH.

Then install extra fonts required by the HPC template. Download fonts <code>AdobStongStd</code>, <code>AdobHeitiStd</code>, <code>AdobeFangsongStd</code>and <code>AdobKaitiStd</code>, then copy them into <code>X:\Windows\Fonts</code>.

''After that'', install <code>zhfonts</code> for the context engine.

<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>Get zhfonts from its [https://github.com/liyanrui/zhfonts github page].</li>
<li>Copy the folder zhfonts into <code>texlive\2014\texmf-dist\tex\context\third</code>.</li>
<li><p>Make <code>zhfonts</code> to take effect, then reload the font cache. The following commands should be typed in Cygwin window:</p>
<pre>luatools --generate
mtxrun --script fonts --reload</pre></li></ol>

Open Cygwin and now you should be able to use git and build the HPC sample documents.

= Build the sample document <code>sample.mkd</code> =

The document processing flow depends on some style files. It is recommended to clone the whole <code>hpc-public-docs</code> project:

<pre>$ git clone https://github.com/sjtuhpcc/hpc-public-docs.git</pre>
Then compile <code>sample.mkd</code> into PDF, wiki, Micosoft Docx formats. Generated files can be found in <code>pdf</code>, <code>wiki</code>, and <code>docx</code> separately.

<pre>$ make sample.pdf sample.wiki sample.docx</pre>
= Reference =

* “gist: Configure ConTeXt environment after installing TeX” https://gist.github.com/weijianwen/4a3794946982f4cc0b31
* “TeXLive on Windows” https://www.tug.org/texlive/windows.html
* “zhfonts模块的用法” http://garfileo.is-programmer.com/posts/23740
